ceil in BST added (#496)
TesseractCoding/NeoAlgo-Docs: docs/data-structures/ceil_in_bst.mdx

---
title: Ceil in Binary Search Tree
slug: /data-structures/ceil_in_bst
---

## Introduction

> In this article, we will see how to find the ceil value in binary search tree(BST). We are given an Binary Search Tree(BST) and an element and we have to find the ceil value of that element in bst . In this type of tree(BST), left child is always smaller than its parent and right child is always greater than its parent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article will see how to find the ceiling value in a binary search tree(BST). We are given a Binary Search Tree(BST) and an element, and we have to find the ceiling value of that element in BST. In this type of tree(BST), the left child is always smaller than its parent, and the right child is always greater than its parent.
```

## Explanation 

> Ceil means smallest greater or equal value, if element is present then simply print that element otherwise print the smallest value which is greater than given value and if no greater value present then print null.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ceil means smallest greater or equal value if the element is present, then print that element; otherwise, print the smallest value greater than the given value. If no greater value is present, then print null.
```

#### Example 1

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/vjoI6QE.jpg?1" width="600" height="350"/>

```
 Input: x=50,
 In the above example, we are given a binary search tree(BST) and an element x(50).
 Root is 44.
 So given element is greater than root, traverse the right child.
 Right child is 66 which is greater than given element, so keep this in res variable.
 Traverse the left child of the node(66).
 Left child of node(66) is null.

>  So we stop traversing ans simply return res value thet is ceil value of 50 that is 66.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 So we stop traversing and return res value that is ceil value of 50 that is 66.
```

```
## Algorithm

> For calculating Ceil in BST, we follow the following algorithm:

Reviewer 2: There is No Algorithm present here, so don't write word Algorithm,
 After  or calculating Ceil in BST, write **we follow the following steps** only

Author: done

Node* Insert(Node *root, int data) {
    //if root have no value
    //then create a node and insert values
    if (root == NULL) {
        root = new Node();
        root->data = data;
        root->left = root->right = NULL;
    }
    //check if data is less than root value
    //then insert into left subtree
    else if (data <= root->data)
        root->left = Insert(root->left, data);
    //check if data is less than root value
    //then insert into right subtree
    else
        root->right = Insert(root->right, data);
    return root;
}

//Ceilbst Function
Node* Ceilbst(Node *root, int x) {
    Node* res=NULL;
    while(root!=NULL)
    {

      // if root-> data is equal to given element
      // return root
      if(root->data==x)
      {
        return root;
      }

      // if root->data is smaller than given element
      // then traverse its right child
      else if(root->data<x)
      {
        root=root->right;
      }

      // otherwise keep updating res
      // and traverse root->left
      else
      {
        res=root;
        root=root->left;
      }
    }
    return res;
}
//Main Function began
int main() {
    Node* root = NULL;
    //input values

>      int n;

Reviewer 2: Use a good naming convention

     cout<<"Enter the size of tree: ";
     cin>>n;
    while(n--){

>         int d;

Reviewer 2: Use a good naming convention

Author: done

        cout<<"Enter the data: ";
        cin>>d;
        root = Insert(root, d);
    }
    int x;
    
    // Taking element as input for which user want 
    // to calculate the Ceil value
    cout<<"Enter the element : ";

>     cin>>x;

Reviewer 2: Use a good naming convention

Author: done
